Copyedits for style, security-jwt-build.adoc (#44603)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/security-jwt-build.adoc

</dependency>
----

Alternatively, for a Gradle-based project, use the following configuration:

[source,gradle,role="secondary asciidoc-tabs-target-sync-gradle"]
.build.gradle
----
implementation("io.quarkus:quarkus-smallrye-jwt-build")
----

> You can use the SmallRye JWT Build API independently, without needing to create MicroProfile JWT endpoints supported by the `quarkus-smallrye-jwt` extension. Additionally, the API can be excluded from `quarkus-smallrye-jwt` if there is no requirement to generate JWT tokens for MicroProfile JWT endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the SmallRye JWT Build API independently, without needing to create MicroProfile JWT endpoints supported by the `quarkus-smallrye-jwt` extension.
```
Not related to the PR, but this is an old suggestion which might work if the optimization is needed but more likely will cause side-effects, with the latest devmode support work, and in native, so better remove it

[source, java]
----
import io.smallrye.jwt.build.Jwt;
...

// Sign the claims using an RSA private key loaded from the location specified by the 'smallrye.jwt.sign.key.location' property.
// No 'jws()' transition is required. The default algorithm is RS256.
String jwt1 = Jwt.claims("/tokenClaims.json").sign();

// Set the headers and sign the claims by using an RSA private key loaded in the code (the implementation of this method is omitted).
// Includes a 'jws()' transition to a 'JwtSignatureBuilder'. The default algorithm is RS256.

String jwt2 = Jwt.claims("/tokenClaims.json")
                 .jws()
                 .keyId("kid1")
                 .header("custom-header", "custom-value")
                 .sign(getPrivateKey());
----

Default behaviors:

- The `alg` (algorithm) header is set to `RS256` by default.
- You do not have to set a signing key identifier (`kid` header) if a single JSON Web Key (JWK) containing a `kid` property is used.

Supported keys and algorithms:

- To sign the claims, you can use RSA private keys, Elliptic Curve (EC) private keys, and symmetric secret keys.

> - `ES256` is the default algorithm for RSA and EC private keys

Reviewer: @rolfedh This is not correct, I mentioned `RS256` for RSA keys. The first line should read `RS256 is the default algorithm for RSA private keys`

Author: Thank you. Sorry I misread your initial message.

> - `ES256` is the default algorithm for RSA and EC private keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ES256` is the default algorithm for EC private keys
```

However, encrypting claims always requires a `jwe()` transition to a `JwtEncryptionBuilder` because the API is optimized to support signing and inner-signing operations.

[source, java]
----
import io.smallrye.jwt.build.Jwt;
...

// Encrypt the claims using an RSA public key loaded from the location specified by the 'smallrye.jwt.encrypt.key.location' property.
// The default key encryption algorithm is RSA-OAEP.

String jwt1 = Jwt.claims("/tokenClaims.json").jwe().encrypt();

// Set the headers and encrypt the claims by using an RSA public key loaded in the code (the implementation of this method is omitted).
// The default key encryption algorithm is A256KW.
String jwt2 = Jwt.claims("/tokenClaims.json").jwe().header("custom-header", "custom-value").encrypt(getSecretKey());
----

Default behaviors:

- The `alg` (key management algorithm) header defaults to `RSA-OAEP`.
- The `enc` (content encryption) header defaults to `A256GCM`.

Supported keys and algorithms:

- You can use RSA public keys, Elliptic Curve (EC) public keys, and symmetric secret keys, to encrypt the claims.

> - `ECDH-ES` is the default algorithm for the RSA and EC public keys.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

[source, java]
----
import io.smallrye.jwt.build.Jwt;
...

// Sign the claims using an RSA private key loaded from the location specified by the 'smallrye.jwt.sign.key.location' property.
// No 'jws()' transition is required. The default algorithm is RS256.
String jwt1 = Jwt.claims("/tokenClaims.json").sign();

// Set the headers and sign the claims by using an RSA private key loaded in the code (the implementation of this method is omitted).
// Includes a 'jws()' transition to a 'JwtSignatureBuilder'. The default algorithm is RS256.

String jwt2 = Jwt.claims("/tokenClaims.json")
                 .jws()
                 .keyId("kid1")
                 .header("custom-header", "custom-value")
                 .sign(getPrivateKey());
----

Default behaviors:

- The `alg` (algorithm) header is set to `RS256` by default.
- You do not have to set a signing key identifier (`kid` header) if a single JSON Web Key (JWK) containing a `kid` property is used.

Supported keys and algorithms:

- To sign the claims, you can use RSA private keys, Elliptic Curve (EC) private keys, and symmetric secret keys.

> - `RS256` is the default algorithm for RSA private keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `RS256` is the default algorithm for RSA private key signature algorithms.
```

Author: Thank you. Updated per our Slack conversation. Please let me know if you have any further suggestions or feedback.

> - `ES256` is the default algorithm for EC private keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ES256` is the default algorithm for EC private key signature algorithms.
```

> - `HS256` is the default algorithm for symmetric secret keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `HS256` is the default algorithm for symmetric key signature algorithms.
```

Author: Thank you. Updated per our Slack conversation. Please let me know if you have any further suggestions or feedback.

[[encrypt-claims]]
== Encrypt the claims

You can encrypt claims immediately or after setting the `JSON Web Encryption (JWE)` headers, similar to how claims are signed.
However, encrypting claims always requires a `jwe()` transition to a `JwtEncryptionBuilder` because the API is optimized to support signing and inner-signing operations.

[source, java]
----
import io.smallrye.jwt.build.Jwt;
...

// Encrypt the claims using an RSA public key loaded from the location specified by the 'smallrye.jwt.encrypt.key.location' property.
// The default key encryption algorithm is RSA-OAEP.

String jwt1 = Jwt.claims("/tokenClaims.json").jwe().encrypt();

// Set the headers and encrypt the claims by using an RSA public key loaded in the code (the implementation of this method is omitted).
// The default key encryption algorithm is A256KW.
String jwt2 = Jwt.claims("/tokenClaims.json").jwe().header("custom-header", "custom-value").encrypt(getSecretKey());
----

Default behaviors:

- The `alg` (key management algorithm) header defaults to `RSA-OAEP`.
- The `enc` (content encryption) header defaults to `A256GCM`.

> Supported keys and algorithms:

Reviewer: Sorry @rolfedh It reads not right, I'm sorry, I'm just trying to finish my own PR and getting a bit distracted, let's try to finalize it

Author: Thank you. Updated per our Slack conversation. Please let me know if you have any further suggestions or feedback.

- You can use RSA public keys, Elliptic Curve (EC) public keys, and symmetric secret keys, to encrypt the claims.

> - `RSA-OAEP` is the default algorithm for the RSA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `RSA-OAEP` is the default algorithm for the RSA public key encryption algorithms.
```

Author: Thank you. Updated per our Slack conversation. Please let me know if you have any further suggestions or feedback.

- `ECDH-ES` is the default algorithm for the EC public keys.

> - `A256KW` is the default algorithm for the symmetric secret keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `A256KW` is the default algorithm for the symmetric key encryption algorithms.
```

This it equivalent now to what is said in the replaced sentence

Author: Thank you. Updated per our Slack conversation. Please let me know if you have any further suggestions or feedback.

// Note a 'jws()' transition to a 'JwtSignatureBuilder', Default algorithm is RS256.
String jwt2 = Jwt.claims("/tokenClaims.json").jws().keyId("kid1").header("custom-header", "custom-value").sign(getPrivateKey());
// Set the headers and sign the claims by using an RSA private key loaded in the code (the implementation of this method is omitted).
// Includes a 'jws()' transition to a 'JwtSignatureBuilder'. The default algorithm is RS256.

String jwt2 = Jwt.claims("/tokenClaims.json")
                 .jws()
                 .keyId("kid1")
                 .header("custom-header", "custom-value")
                 .sign(getPrivateKey());
----

Note the `alg` (algorithm) header is set to `RS256` by default. Signing key identifier (`kid` header) does not have to be set if a single JSON Web Key (JWK) containing a `kid` property is used.
Default behaviors:

- The `alg` (algorithm) header is set to `RS256` by default.
- You do not have to set signing key identifier (`kid` header) if a single JSON Web Key (JWK) containing a `kid` property is used.

Supported keys and algorithms:

RSA and Elliptic Curve (EC) private keys as well as symmetric secret keys can be used to sign the claims.

> `ES256` and `HS256` are the default algorithms for EC private and symmetric key algorithms respectively.

Author: @sberyozkin Is there a default algorithm for RSA private keys?

Reviewer: @rolfedh `RS256` is the default one for RSA keys

Author: Thank you. Updated.
